# minimize-file-io

In this portable PHP script, I applied four methods to minimize file I/O operations:

* The first method shows how to use memory caching to avoid reading files repeatedly. If you ever have need to read the contents of a file multiple times in your script, it's more efficient to read the file once and store the contents in memory using an associative array. Btw, subsequent reads of the same file can then be served from the cache.<br>
* The next method demonstrates how to use file locking to prevent multiple processes from writing to the same file simultaneously. When multiple processes are writing to the same file, it's important to ensure that only one process writes to the file at a time to avoid data corruption. I used the <b>flock()</b> function to acquire an exclusive lock on the file before writing to it, and release the lock when we're done.<br>
* The third method shows how to use output buffering to minimize file writes. Instead of writing data to a file immediately as it's generated by your PHP code, you can use output buffering to store the data in a buffer in memory. Once all the data has been generated, you can then write the entire buffer to a file in one operation. You'll enjoy that if you try though.<br>
* The fourth method shows how to use in-memory data structures to avoid writing to files altogether. If you're generating data in your script that doesn't need to be persisted to disk (for example, JSON data that will be sent to a client), you can store the data in an in-memory data structure (in this case, I'd say an associative array) and output it directly to the client. This avoids the need to write the data to a file and then read it back in.
